--About Us--

Header: About Us
 
Subhead: Visiting Mechanicsburg PA

Subhead: ALL MUSEUM BUILDINGS ARE CURRENTLY CLOSED DUE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC.  ALL PUBLIC ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED.  WE LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING EVERYONE WHEN CONDITIONS IMPROVE.

Body:The Passenger Station, Stationmaster's House, and Freight Station are close together in one complex.  The driving directions below lead you to the freight station.  Free parking is available at the Freight Station, including handicap parking.  Enter the lot from North Market Street.  There is more free parking available at the borough lot just west of the museum on Strawberry Alley, as well as plenty of on-street parking in the area.  The Passenger Station and Freight Station are both handicap accessible.  Normal hours are Wednesday through Saturday, 12:00 to 3:00, with special hours for borough events (check our Events page).  The Freight Station is closed three times per year for exhibit change.  Admission is free for normal exhibits.

Link: https://www.mapquest.com/us/pa/mechanicsburg/17055-6212/3-w-allen-st-40.214465,-77.008724?zoom=6

Body: The Frankenberger Tavern is a short walk east of the complex, on Main Street.  The walk goes by historic buildings such as the former American House Hotel, Union Church, built in 1825, and Washington Fire Hall, with a number of historic items on display in back.  There is also parking beside the tavern, at Frankeberger Place.  The tavern is open Saturdays from 12:00 to 3:00 from May through October, and for special events.  Admission is free.

The Washington Street Station is a few blocks west of the main complex, a short distance north of Main Street.  Free on-street parking is available.

There is no food or drink available in the museum buildings, but there are restaurants within a short walk on Main Street, and many more within a short drive.  Ask any of our museum docents for specifics.

For other local attractions, food, and lodging info, check out our links.

Link: http://www.mechanicsburgmuseum.org/links.html

Subhead: Winter Weather

Body: For the safety of our volunteers, the museum will be closed when the Mechanicsburg Area School District closes for weather. We will also close for snow or ice on Saturdays or during Sunday events.

Subhead: Contact Info

Body: Mechanicsburg Museum Association
2 Strawberry Alley
Mechanicsburg, PA 17055

(717) 697-6088

E-mail: 
mechanicsburgmuseum@gmail.com
<a href="mailto:mechanicsburgmuseum@gmail.com">e-mail</a>

Subhead: Our Organization

Body:The Mechanicsburg Museum Association was founded in 1975 in a community effort to preserve the Stationmaster’s House, a historic Mechanicsburg landmark, from destruction. Since its founding, the Association has preserved and promoted Mechanicsburg’s unique history with educational programs, gallery exhibits, and by acquiring four more historic buildings in the area.

The MMA owns and preserves four Mechanicsburg buildings built by the Cumberland Valley Railroad: The 1866 Stationmaster's House, The 1886 Freight Station, The 1867 Passenger Station and the 1899 Washington Street Station. The buildings are open to the public during regular museum hours and at special events, such as Jubilee Day, and other community celebrations. The 1801 Frankenberger Tavern, Mechanicsburg's oldest known building, is open seasonally and for special events.  Admission is free to all normal exhibits.

Our main office is located in the Passenger Station at 2 West Strawberry Alley, with exhibits on Mechanicsburg's history and Cumberland Valley Railroad history. The Freight Station houses changing exhibits, the Museum Store, and museum archives. The Stationmaster's House is furnished as it might have been when new, as a glimpse of life in the 1860s. The Washington Street Station is a small building with exhibits viewed through the windows. The Frankenberger Tavern is furnished as it might have been in the early 1800s.

The Association is active within the community, sponsoring annual events such as the Heritage Golf Tournament, a Holiday Wreath sale, and dinner at the historic Frankenberger Tavern. The Sunflower Garden Tour and Flower Show and the Quilt Show are held on alternating years.

The Mechanicsburg Museum Association was incorporated as a non-profit corporation in 1976.

Subhead: Mission: 

Body:
* To collect and preserve material to establish or illustrate the history of Mechanicsburg and provide for its accessibility of the community and surrounding area
* To develop educational programs for all ages and disseminate information in prepared programs/guest lecturers
* To restore significantly historic buildings
* To establish and maintain exhibits in keeping with the theme of local history and development

Subhead: Mechanicsburg Museum 2020 Board of Directors

Body: Frankie Hensel, President    Sandy Showers, Treasurer    Faith Matthews, Recording Secretary
Jean Layne   Jeanne Souder    Pam Weaver    Carvel Markley    Gary Weber   John Behel   Pat Berkheimer   Virginia Herring Christine Dixon  Linda Willis

Subhead: Staff

Body: Steven B. Zimmerman, Museum Director    Kimberly Dubas, Secretary   John Klinger, Webmaster  Faith Matthews, Facebook





