--Join Us--

Header: Join Us

body: Members of the Mechanicsburg Museum Association are "Keeping our History Alive." The financial support of our members is key to lighting, heating, air conditioning and maintaining our five properties, and preserving and exhibiting historical items. Benefits of membership include our newsletters, and free admission to both of our lecture series.


Link: http://www.mechanicsburgmuseum.org/memberform.html

By far the biggest benefit of membership is the opportunity to join our corps of volunteers. The wide range of opportunities has something for almost anyone. Meet interesting people working in teams, or work alone on "backroom" projects. Meet the public, or work behind the scenes. Work as a leader or a follower.  Do one thing, or many things. Some of us work one three hour shift per month as docents in our buildings, while for others, the museum is a second home. Try whatever interests you. If it turns out to be wrong for you, there is no pressure to continue. Go ahead and try something else. Training is provided where appropriate. Areas of interest include:

Subhead: Docents 

Body: Tour guides for the Stationmaster's House, Passenger and Freight Stations, and the Frankenberger Tavern. This can be one three hour shift per month or more. You agree to your assignment the month before, and can change with another docent if necessary.

Subhead: Educational Program 

Body: Volunteers guide 4th grade classes as docents in several buildings for morning sessions during Spring and Fall.

Subhead: Exhibits 

Body: Planning, setting up, and dismantling three exhibits per year in the Freight Station. Responsible for exhibits in the Passenger Station.

Subhead: Social Events 

Body: Planning and setting up events such as the annual membership dinner and the volunteers' "thank you" event.

Subhead: Acquisitions 

Body: Cataloging and storing our "treasures." This is very flexible for time and hours.

Subhead: Oral History 

Body: Helping to interview residents of Mechanicsburg. Transcribing the oral history.

Subhead: Newsletter 

Body: Assist in the assembly of the newsletter for mailing

Subhead: Hospitality/Hostess 

Body: On occasion, help is needed with receptions for exhibit openings and programs to plan and serve at the events.

Subhead: Custodial Maintenance 

Body: Involves spring-cleaning of the above buildings and fulfilling the light, routine house cleaning chores throughout the year.

Subhead: Maintenance 

Body: Helping with small carpentry, electrical or plumbing projects.  Changing light bulbs.

Subhead: Jubilee Day 

Body: Helping hands needed for activities at various buildings

Subhead: Fund Raising

Body: Finding ways to finance our operations and activities. Includes special events:

Subhead:Earth Day

Body: Helping to plan the event and working the day of the event

Subhead: Heritage Golf Tournament 

Body: Helping to plan the event and working the day of the tournament, held in May.

Subhead: Sunflower Garden Tour

Body: Planning and preparing the tour, and recruiting suitable gardens. This is the main work involved.
Greeting participants as a host/hostess. Relaxing and soaking up sun. A nice, low pressure job.

Subhead: Christmas Wreath Sale 

Body: Making bows (prior to the event), attaching bows to wreaths, bundling orders, and assisting with order pickup. A fun group event.

Subhead: Jubilee Day Pie Contest

Body: Organizing, setting up, and registering contestants. Tasting and judging pies.  Announcing winners.

Subhead: Christmas Gingerbread House Contest

Body: Organizing, setting up, and registering contestants. Counting votes. Notifying winners.

Subhead: Sidewalk Sale

Body: Putting up, selling, taking down

Subhead: Board of Directors 

Body: An opportunity to help direct the activities of the Museum; an involved, challenging leadership role.

Subhead: Volunteer Consultant 

Body: If you have special skills that may be of use to us on occasion, let us know.

Link: http://www.mechanicsburgmuseum.org/memberform.html




